docs/src/index.md, before:

# NetworkDynamics

A package for working with dynamical systems on complex networks. NetworkDynamics.jl provides an interface between [LightGraphs.jl](https://github.com/JuliaGraphs/LightGraphs.jl) and [DifferentialEquations.jl](https://github.com/SciML/DifferentialEquations.jl). It allows to define several types of dynamic and static nodes and edges and to link them up in order to create complex network dynamics.

At the moment the behaviour of a node or an edge can be described by algebraic equations or by ordinary differential equations (ODE). Support for stochastic differential equations (SDE) and delay differential equations (DDE) will be added in future releases.

## Installation

Installation is straightforward with Julia's package manager.

```julia-repl
(v1.3) pkg> add NetworkDynamics
```

## PowerDynamics

[PowerDynamics.jl](https://juliaenergy.github.io/PowerDynamics.jl/stable/) is an open-source framework for dynamic power grid modeling and analysis build on top of NetworkDynamics.jl.


# Overview

The key construction is the function [`network_dynamics`](@ref) that takes in
two arrays of functions describing the local dynamics on the edges and nodes of
a graph `g`, and returns a composite function compatible with the
DifferentialEquations.jl calling syntax.

```julia
nd = network_dynamics(vertices!::Array{VertexFunction},  edges!::Array{EdgeFunction}, g)
nd(dx, x, p, t)
```

Commit message:

pointing to more equation types

docs/src/index.md, after:

# NetworkDynamics

A package for working with dynamical systems on complex networks. NetworkDynamics.jl provides an interface between [LightGraphs.jl](https://github.com/JuliaGraphs/LightGraphs.jl) and [DifferentialEquations.jl](https://github.com/SciML/DifferentialEquations.jl). It allows to define several types of dynamic and static nodes and edges and to link them up in order to create complex network dynamics.

The behavior of a node or an edge can be described by algebraic equations, by differential algebraic equation (DAEs) in mass matrix form, by ordinary differential equations (ODE) or by delay differential equations(DDE). Stochastic ordinary differential equations (SDE) can e.g. be implemented as a [two-layer network](https://github.com/FHell/NetworkDynamics.jl/blob/master/examples/sde.jl). For detail see the tutorials section.

## Installation

Installation is straightforward with Julia's package manager.

```julia-repl
(v1.5) pkg> add NetworkDynamics
```

## PowerDynamics

[PowerDynamics.jl](https://juliaenergy.github.io/PowerDynamics.jl/stable/) is an open-source framework for dynamic power grid modeling and analysis build on top of NetworkDynamics.jl.


# Overview

The key construction is the function [`network_dynamics`](@ref) that takes in
two arrays of functions describing the local dynamics on the edges and nodes of
a graph `g`, and returns a composite function compatible with the
DifferentialEquations.jl calling syntax.

```julia
nd = network_dynamics(vertices!::Array{VertexFunction},  edges!::Array{EdgeFunction}, g)
nd(dx, x, p, t)
```
